## Analyze Data

The ability to derive answers and deliver insight from the
foundational data captured within the platform. The platform needs to
support the four main classifications of analytics: ‘what happened’
(Descriptive), 'why did it happen' (Diagnostic) 'what will happen'
(Predictive) and ‘what to do’ (Prescriptive) and the toolchains that
support these techniques.

### Business Intelligence

Descriptive analytics that deliver actionable business insight from the
manufacturing platform. Business Intelligence involved the definition
process of the typical reports and dashboards that are commonly provided
by the *Visualize data* capability. The analytic process is typically
iterative and thus relies on interactive data manipulation like
drill-down. There is a growing trend for so-called self-service BI. This
pull approach is shifting many tasks to the users have a business
question. It is shortening the insights process as educated users are
enabled to prepare the data to answer their questions.

### Reporting and Dashboarding

The descriptive capability of visualizing, formatting, drill-down and
historic interrogation of data within the manufacturing platform.

### Data Mining

The diagnostic capability required to extract and discover information
across the large amounts of data delivered by the manufacturing
platform, such as the correlation, filtering, and statistical analysis
of data. The data volume in manufacturing in constantly increasing:
While some years ago vehicle control was executed on pre-defined vehicle
characteristics like aggregate and components, today many plants are
controlling on single part level. This approach alone increases the
typical data volume by factor 10. To cope with this data mining and time
series analysis are key diagnostic approaches.

### Time Series Analysis

The diagnostic capability of being able to analyze data within the
context of time intervals (e.g. for analyzing event data emitted from
facility equipment)

### Regression & Forecasting

The predictive analytics capability of being able to understand and
trends in the data collected from across the manufacturing platform.

### Human in the Loop Analytics

The capability of augmenting algorithms and models used in predictive
and prescriptive analytics with human experience and knowledge.

While simulation today is predominately used in the planning phase of
manufacturing (e.g., optimizing production line throughput during
reconstruction phases), this technique is being applied for
what-if-scenarios as well. As a prescriptive approach this is assisting
the human expert on how to cope with interruptions and plan deviations.

### Pattern Matching

The predictive capability to recognize patterns and irregularities in
data (both computer formatted and binary data such as image and audio
data)

### Machine and Deep Learning

The capability to learn, infer and automatically build predictive models
from data within the manufacturing platform.

The application of machine learning is an increasing domain. The
platform must provide optimized environment for training and analytics
processes executed by data engineers and scientist. MLOps must be part
of the platform to make the manual tasks more efficient and reliable.
The platform should reduce the huge gap between the data science and
manufacturing (mental) models.

### Complex Event Processing

The prescriptive ability to processes real-time event and streamed data
(particularly on-device) in order to also gain insight across these
streams in real-time.

### Simulation

The prescriptive technique of developing a modelled representation of an
asset, environment or process to understand possible outcomes,
probabilities and scenarios.

While simulation today is predominately used in the planning phase of
manufacturing (e.g., optimizing production line throughput during
reconstruction phases), this technique is being applied for
what-if-scenarios as well. As a prescriptive approach this is assisting
the human expert on how to cope with interruptions and plan deviations.
