## Visualize Data

This capability allows data to be represented graphically. Data may be
exposed directly from the platform in a manner suitable for direct
visualization and to visualize state (e.g. for real time monitoring), or
visualizations that are suitable for exploration of data (paired with
analytics capabilities). In addition, visualization may be volumetric or
represent a model of a physical environment (for instance, for use with
a Digital Twin).

Reports and dashboards are created by application of the Analyze data
capability. Typically, this is executed by vendor specific BI tools. The
platform must provide the integration of these tools. This integration
has many dependencies with the Store data capability and a tool
independent storage is important. Many companies are using multiple BI
tools even within the same business domain. While many of these insights
are consumed in office environments, andon boards are an example for
visualizing data directly at the shopfloor. For the later the platform
must provide the integration of customized visualizations.

There are huge differences on the acceptable data age to be displayed.
While visualizations directly at the shopfloor sometimes need updates
within a second (e.g., vehicle specific information for worker
guidance), visualizations like weekly product targets are more in the
range of minutes and hours. The platform must be able to handle these
different requirements with a selection of different visualization
approaches.

As a replacement for the still all too common printed reports
visualization processes need a high availability and maturity: Having no
information during the regular morning rounds is an unacceptable risk.
On the other hand, live data instead of legacy data on paper is moving
production to a new level of responsiveness.

Some manufacturing visualizations have been carefully crafted and
refined over years (like specific start-up curves). Therefore, the
integration of custom-built charts is characteristic for the platform.

### 2D Visualization
TBD

### 3D Visualization
TBD
